[Music]
all right so you've heard of flipping
phones you've heard of folding phones
but technology never slows down so
welcome to a phone with both the world's
first trifold phone this thing this is
the Huawei mate XT is what it's called
so I'd heard about this thing I'd seen
some videos online but it's also a
Huawei phone so it's China only so
knowing that I'm never going to daily
drive it I didn't want to like get too
caught up but it's so interesting like
there I I just had so many questions
like what is it like to use what are the
creases like like what are the
trade-offs how hard is it to carry a
triple folding phone what the case is
like why is it called a trifold when it
only technically folds twice I just I
need answers so I was like all right I
need to get my hands on one I reached
out to dbrand and asked like can you
guys get me a contact where I can buy
one and I never asked questions but
they're always able to pull it off and
they did so I spent the money I imported
the thing and now I can give you a tour
of the trifold experience so let us
start with just when it's closed right
when it's closed you have a pretty
reasonable 6.4 in sized phone well I
mean you know reasonable from the front
anyway uh if you're just looking at it
using it the screen gets plenty bright
it is 90 HZ and then somehow the bezels
are pretty thin and even all the way
around the top and the bottom the left
and the right and actually of course the
right side is the screen curving around
the edge so the software appropriately
creates a for bezel to match and it
looks it looks honestly more like a
normal phone than a lot of the other
foldables out there so then using it you
know you pretty quickly feel that it is
thicker than a normal phone but what's
crazy is each of these slices
individually is ridiculously thin about
4 mm so in total they add up to 13 mm
thick when it's closed which would be
pretty thick if it was a slab phone but
that's actually about the same as a lot
of the other single folds like zold 6 so
then the power button SL fingerprint
reader combo button and the volume
buttons on the right side here they're
pushed a little bit back of the center
not the end of the world totally usable
you're obviously going to notice that
parts of the screen are a bit exposed
and vulnerable if you're going to put it
in a pocket or in a backpack or
something but overall just as a
regularized single screen smartphone
experience this is actually really
respectable this is like an 8 out of 10
really close to the best I've seen which
is awesome but then you open it for the
first time and from here you get to the
small tablet mode so yes sizewise now
we're basically matching a lot of the
other folding phones out there like
pixel fold Samsung zold Etc this is a
7.9 in diagonal that is roughly a square
aspect ratio I'll be honest it looks
fine but I actually don't really think
it was meant to operate in this form
factor most of the time I mean why stop
halfway when you're just one more fold
away from greatness but it is clearly
perfectly usable like this the crease
your first crease is impressively small
and very easy to ignore when you're
actually using it but yeah thin bezels
all the way around again blacked out
pixels on the far left hand side this
time and there's also still a couple
little folding phone tricks like of
course since the main camera is on the
back and there's no selfie camera on
these two panes then this is the perfect
time to take a selfie with the main
camera but get a full-size preview on
the 6.4 in screen that's still wrapped
around the other side and they are
really good Flagship quality triple
cameras by the way I'll get to that in a
second you of course get all the other
benefits of the display spec the
brightness the 90 HZ it's really solid
it's obviously it's just a little
awkward that it's like it's twice as
thick in one hand as the other which is
a little unbalanced and then it is glass
on one side and then the like sort of
leather material on the other so it's
it's a little bit weird in that way but
honestly still very impressive I feel
like this is like a seven out of 10
still pretty
close but you know we're not done so
this is what we're all here for the
final fold which opens this thing up to
a full 10.2 in corner to corner display
so this is now a full 3184 by
2232 90 HZ OLED display Finn bezel all
the way around amazingly with a whole
punch selfie camera over to the left
side two creases two hinges and yeah
this is not an iPad Mini siiz screen in
your pocket this is literally a
full-sized 10-in tablet in your pocket
which is actually incredible now the
more you play with it the more you start
to notice little quirks like first of
all it's ridiculously thin now that it's
all open it's actually kind of
disorienting to hold the tablet with a
screen this big but bezels this small
and like the whole thing is this thin
it's just kind of a Marvel and then uh
you look at the creases plural because
now you got two and you can actually see
there is a small difference between the
inward fold increase on the right side
and the outward fold increase on the
left but they are also actually both
impressively small but like yeah this
I'm actually kind of sad that I can't
like fully daily Drive something like
this because it is Huawei like you can
kind of hack your way into getting some
Google services on here but a lot of
this UI a lot of this OS is still
Chinese only like it's not going to be
great it's probably missing some bands
in the us too but
just wow there's a good amount of
software tweaks for the Triple fold
thing too like when you fully unfold it
the whole UI stretches out but is still
one page on each side so they've kind of
just played this animation to stretch
out two pages among three panels but the
animation's pretty smooth and there is a
wrong way to fold it too by the way and
it tells you about it so obviously you
can close it pretty easily the correct
way to unfold it is to get the two on
the inside but if you unfold it the
wrong way like that it actually tells
you it's a says fold it a different way
to use the device please you're kind of
doing something weird here which totally
fair I'll get it right next time I'll
you kind of have to there is a little
learning curve to according according
according quickly every time but yeah
this has to be a 10 out of 10 I mean
there's the fact that I'm able to fit a
look at the size of this a 10in display
reasonably in my pocket that that by
itself is something that no other device
can do so I got to love that another
question I had early when playing with
this
is I mean people put cases on every
phone what are cases for this phone like
turns out it does come with a case in
the box which is this thing and so
really it's just one back piece of the
phone that it can protect when it's
fully closed so this case snaps onto the
back of the phone like this and then
protects also a little bit of the
exposed screen on the side so it makes
sense you don't want to get any debris
in there and then it has a kickstand on
the back which can rotate around and
support it at a couple various different
angles so you can watch videos like this
if you're into that and it can also
rotate out of the way to expose the
wireless charging coils because it turns
out this phone also has wireless
charging and if you just flip it
sideways on certain charges you can get
it to line up and work with wireless
charging so that's one type of person
who will use the kickstand built into
the case but there is another type of
person by the way a total Reckless
psycho that would unfold it like this
and then use the phone itself as a
built-in kickstand and it totally works
like the UI responds to it and you can
watch you know YouTube on a larger part
of the screen but you're also totally
scratching the outside part of the
screen you're using as a kickstand so
yeah I'm obviously not going to
recommend that uh in case you're also
wondering about specs on something like
this uh it's fit Flagship specs inside
despite being these crazy thin slivers
of a phone uh it's the flagship 7 NM
Kieran 9010 chip made by Huawei um
it is also up to 16 gigs of RAM and a
terabyte of storage which is crazy and
triple cameras on the back as you can
see that's a 50 megapix main camera a 12
megapix ultrawide and a telephoto and
there's a 5600 Mah hour battery chopped
up and distributed in here with 67 watt
fast charging and 50 W wireless charging
which is kind of insane and then the
whole thing will retail it's in China so
if you sort of do the conversion price
this like top end model with the
terabyte of storage is like $3500 so
$3,000 to
$3500 uh that's actually not that much
more expensive than some of the highest
end folds that we have so why is this
the only trifold phone maybe that's the
main question you're wondering after all
this because it's so cool it's just the
fact that I can actually fit all of this
in the dimensions of something that fits
in my pocket is
nuts and they've done a lot of things
with like nice software touch that
actually make it feel really well
considered but uh yeah there are also
some trade-offs of course I think the
biggest weakness on paper is going to be
the battery the 5600 millah battery you
know fast charging is great obviously so
that can offset it but the more time you
use this wide open with the 10 in of
screen the tougher that's going to be on
the battery you know if you look at
typical larger tablets even the thin
ones the 10-in tablets are having like
8,000 plus milliamp batteries pretty
often so that's probably the biggest
weakness here the speakers are also
truly terrible uh it's interesting cuz
they come out of the right hand corner
and the leftand corner when it's open uh
but it's so thin there's just there's
it's physics there's not enough room for
big Chambers for huge speakers so this
yeah the speakers are pretty tiny pretty
bad and then there is no IP rating for
dust or water resistance some of the
newer foldables have water resistance
now this one not so much um and then of
course the price is obviously going to
keep some people away but honestly
that's that's a pretty small list of
tradeoffs for something that is so like
shocking
different and new um that I'm I'm
impressed this had the potential to be
like the world's greatest concept phone
remember concept phones from a couple
years ago I was like this it's getting
kind of weird that people are like
showing off phones they're never going
to make this could have been the coolest
concept phone ever but then they just
went and decided to actually make a
bunch of them and ship them this phone
also just happens to have a variable
aperture lens on the main camera so it
can switch between f1.4 wide open for
some real background bokeh to F4 and
getting more things in focus it happens
to also have that insanely fast charging
it comes with an 80 watt charging brick
and it has fast wireless charging and a
body barely thick enough to have an
entire USBC Port it happens to come with
this pre-installed screen protector that
I'm just never going to remove it's
crazy there's just so much going on here
that in this world of so many phones
just being oh all phones are the same
these days it's just a little different
from last year not a whole lot has
changed
I got to hand it to projects like this
this is just insane I got to they didn't
have to go this hard they didn't have to
go this hard but they did thanks for
watching catch you guys in the next one
peace
[Music]